howto writestate (#152)
Hyperfoil/qDup: docs/howto/writestate.adoc

= How to write state to separate files

> Complicated workloads, like running a suite of benchmarks or performance tests, create complicated output. That output can be parsed with `regex` into state values and included in the `run.json` that qDup creates or we write parts of the state to file as part of the qDup script to help separate the difference tests in the suite.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Complicated workloads, like running a suite of benchmarks or performance tests, can create complicated output. That output can be parsed with `regex` into state variables and included in `run.json` that qDup creates with every run. Alternatively, we can write parts of the state to file(s) as part of the qDup script to help separate the different tests in the suite.
```

> In our example we will use curl as our _performance test_ and our _benchmark suite_ will be a list of websites we want to measure. We will add `time` so we can measure the response time. The `sh` command is rather straight forward

Reviewer: ```suggestion

In our example we will use curl as our _performance test_ and our _benchmark suite_ will be a list of websites we want to measure. We will add `time` so we can measure the response time. The `sh` command is rather straight forward
```
Exra space to split up the paragraphs

```yaml
- for-each: target ${{targets:[]}} #default to empty to avoid errors
  then:
  - sh: time curl -v "${{target}}"
    then:
    - regex: "real\\s+(?<real>\\S+)"
    - regex: "user\\s+(?<user>\\S+)"
    - regex: "sys\\s+(?<sys>\\S+)"
    - regex: "HTTP/\\d\\.\\d (?<code>\\d{3})"
```
Now we need to decide what we do with the values. We could store them in an array in `states` but for this example we will write them to file.
```yaml
- for-each: target ${{targets:[]}} #default to empty to avoid errors
  then:
  - sh: time curl -v "${{target}}"
    then:
    - regex: "real\\s+(?<real>\\S+)"
    - regex: "user\\s+(?<user>\\S+)"
    - regex: "sys\\s+(?<sys>\\S+)"
    - regex: "HTTP/\\d\\.\\d (?<code>\\d{3})"
    - sh: echo '{"real":"${{real}}","user":"${{user}}","sys":"${{sys}}","code":"${{code}}"} > "${{target}}.json"
    - queue-download: "${{target}}.json"
```
The above example constructs the json in the call to echo but we could also separate that into a `set-state` or `js` command.
```yaml
- set-state: toWrite {"real":"${{real}}","user":"${{user}}","sys":"${{sys}}","code":"${{code}}"}
  then:
  - sh : echo '${{toWrite}}' > "${{target}}.json"

> ```

Reviewer: i wasn't thinking about manually constructing the JSON output here, but using RUN state variable to create it for us, e.g.;

```yaml
  - sh: time curl -v "${{target}}"
    then:
    - regex: "real\\s+(?<real>\\S+)"
      then:
        - set-state: RUN.results.${{target}}.real ${{real}}
    - regex: "user\\s+(?<user>\\S+)"
      then:
        - set-state: RUN.results.${{target}}.user ${{user}}
    - regex: "sys\\s+(?<sys>\\S+)"
      then:
        - set-state: RUN.results.${{target}}.sys ${{sys}}
    - regex: "HTTP/\\d\\.\\d (?<code>\\d{3})"
      then:
        - set-state: RUN.results.${{target}}.code ${{code}}
  - sh: echo '${{RUN.results}}' > metrics.json
  - queue-download: metrics.json
```

Author: I added an example of adding each regex to a `toWrite` but I left off the `RUN.` prefix to introduce that in a different section
